fix: Validate Repository URL on creation (#1926)
tektoncd/pipelines-as-code: docs/content/docs/install/global_repositories_setting.md

---
title: Global Repository Settings
weight: 4
---
{{< tech_preview "Global repository settings" >}}

## Pipelines-as-Code Global Repository Settings

> Pipelines-as-Code allows you to have a global repository for all your
> repository settings. This enables you to define settings that will be applied
> to all repositories on your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipelines-as-Code allows you to have a global repository for settings of all your local repositories. 
This enables you to define settings that will be applied to all local repositories on your cluster.
```

The global repository settings serve as a fallback for all repositories if the

> local repository settings in the namespace do not override them.

Reviewer: @chmouel like this, shouldn't we use `"local repository"` term everywhere in the docs? in order to maintain uniformity.

The global repository must be created in the namespace where the
`pipelines-as-code` controller is installed (usually `pipelines-as-code` or
`openshift-pipelines`).

> The global repository Custom Resource (CR) needs to have a  `spec.url`
> defined to a valid Git repository URL. This URL can be anything, for example:

Reviewer: `"defined to a valid Git repository URL"`   VS   `"This URL can be anything"`

I see conflicts in these two sentences, if I understood it correctly, global repository doesn't need to have a repository url but a valid URL of http or https so shouldn't it be?:

```suggestion
The global repository Custom Resource (CR) needs to have a  `spec.url`
defined to a valid URL satisfying http or https scheme. This URL can be anything, for example:
```

<https://pac.global.repo>

By default, the repository should be named `pipelines-as-code`, but you can
redefine it by setting the environment variable
`PAC_CONTROLLER_GLOBAL_REPOSITORY` in the controller Deployment.

The settings that can be defined in the global repository are:

- [Concurrency Limit]({{< relref "/docs/guide/repositorycrd.md#concurrency" >}}).
- [PipelineRun Provenance]({{< relref "/docs/guide/repositorycrd.md#pipelinerun-definition-provenance" >}}).
- [Repository Policy]({{< relref "/docs/guide/policy" >}}).
- [Repository GitHub App Token Scope]({{< relref "/docs/guide/repositorycrd.md#scoping-the-github-token-using-global-configuration" >}}).

> - Git provider auth settings such as user, token, URL, etc. The `type` must be defined in the namespace repository settings and must match the `type` of the global repository (see below for an example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Git provider auth settings such as user, token, URL, etc. The `type` must be defined in a local repository settings and must match the `type` of the global repository (see below for an example).
```

- [Custom Parameters]({{< relref "/docs/guide/customparams.md" >}}).
- [Incoming Webhooks Rules]({{< relref "/docs/guide/incoming_webhook.md" >}}).

> Note that custom parameters and incoming rules do not get merged with the
> namespace repository settings; they are only used if none are defined in the
> namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that custom parameters and incoming rules from global repository do not override settings of the local repository until they are not defined in the local repository.
```

{{< hint info >}}
Global settings are only applied at runtime; they are not used by the `tkn pac create repo` command.
{{< /hint >}}

### Example of How Global Repository Settings Are Applied

> - If you have a Repository CR in the user namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you have a Repository CR in the `user-namespace`:
```

Since the local Repository CR has the `git_provider.type` set to `gitlab`, like the global Repository CR, the Git provider settings for [GitLab]({{< relref "/docs/install/gitlab.md#create-a-repository-and-configure-webhook-manually" >}}) will be taken from the global repository. The secret referenced will be fetched from where the global repository is defined.

### Types When Git Provider Settings Are Applied

These are the types you can set up for the Git provider settings. They are only
used when handling incoming webhooks or global repository settings. They are
used for webhook-based Git providers (i.e., everything except GitHub Apps
installations). In this case, the type `github` means a repository configured
using [GitHub webhooks]({{< relref "/docs/install/github_webhook.md" >}}):

- github
- gitlab
- gitea
- bitbucket-cloud
- bitbucket-server

The global repository settings for the Git provider can currently only
reference one type of provider on a cluster. The user would need to specify
their own provider information in their own Repository CR if they do not want

> to use the global settings or want to target another repository.

Reviewer: I think its `"provider"` here, yeah?

```suggestion
to use the global settings or want to target another provider.
```
